
1. Introducing EVE-NG
  UNetLab, or the Unified Networking Lab, is a virtual lab for networking engineers who want to explore and learn networking concepts or test networking designs. It is a Web-based competitor to options such as GNS3 and Cisco VIRL. UNetLab can be seen as a hypervisor for images that typically run on physical network devices or internal separate virtual machines.
  The great thing about UNetLab (and EVE-NG) is that everything is contained in a virtual machine, and users use a web interface to create and manage labs. 
  EVE-NG (Emulated Virtual Environment - Next Generation) is the successor to UnetLab which contains more powerful features compared to UnetLab. EVE-NG is a graphical network emulator that supports both commercial and open-source router images. Its graphical user interface runs in a web browser. Users may create network nodes from a library of templates, connect them together, and configure them. 
2. Installing EVE-NG
  There are two ways to install EVE-NG on Vmware Workstation:
* Download the EVE ova file and open it directly.
* Download the iso file and set it up.
  The ova and iso files can be downloaded here.
  For this project, I will install and configure EVE-NG on Vmware WorkStation using the EVE ova file which contains the EVE-NG image that was pre-installed. If users want to install EVE-NG using the iso file, instruction can be found here.
2.1. Prepare
   Required installation packages:
* The EVE-NG ova file
* The bundled Telnet, VNC, rpc packages for Windows environment can be downloaded here.
* Vmware Workstation.
2.2. Installation and Configuration
   After downloading the necessary software, open Vmware Workstation and do the following steps:
1. Open the EVE ova file
2. Browse to the directory containing the downloaded EVE ova file and Open it
     
3. Make sure the storage path is correct and click Import
     
4. After importing the virtual machine successfully, click Edit virtual machine settings and edit as follow. Two boxes in the virtualization engine section need to be checked. 
5. When the VM is booted for the first time, the screen will ask users to log in with the username root and the password eve. 
6. Enter a new password for user root
7. Type the hostname

8. Type the DNS domain name
9. Set up an IP address for the VM. For this project, I configure a static address for convenience. 
10. Type a NTP server if used
11. Choose direct connection
2.3.  Complete the installation and access the user interface via a browser
     
	The default credential for the web interface:
* Username: admin
* Password: eve













      Install the Windows client-side package
        
2.4.  Configure Wireshark
	To use Wireshark to capture packets on devices in EVE-NG environment, I need to configure the wireshark_wrapper.bat file using notepad running as administrator and type the password in.
       
       


